---
layout: post.hbs
title: Having Faith In Mirror's Edge
date: 2015-06-15
---

Despite its shortcomings, Mirror's Edge is still one of my favorite video games ever made. The first-person experience was unparalleled (and still is, if you ask me). The minimal aesthetic of the environment was colorful and, put simply, striking. And then there was Faith; a beautiful, strong, competent protagonist who could easily roll with the best of them. She also happened to be a young woman.

Setting aside a weak story that was often poorly delivered and the jarring experience I had every time I found myself with a gun in hand, Mirror's Edge was a unique and delightfully refreshing video game in a crowded space. The Pure Time Trials DLC took that fresh feeling even further with a set of incredibly unique time trial maps, each with its own color scheme and personality.

And now we're here.

I've been following the development of the second Mirror's Edge game since it was first announced in 2013. I was very excited to hear that the franchise would continue, but I was also anxious. How will they change the formula? Will they damage what made the first game so unique and memorable? Will there still be gun play? Worse, will gun play be _more_ prominent? These are the types of questions that filled my head every time I thought about the new game.

Today, my anxiety is gone.

At EA's E3 2015 press conference this afternoon, senior producer Sara Jansson [took the stage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJYVNzdgVJo) to reveal Mirror's Edge: Catalyst. The game promises more freedom, the origin story of Faith and even a world without levels or loading screens. Truly free roaming, as Sara put it. The words that will stick with me, though, came next:

> She doesn't need any guns.

I'm pretty sure I cried tears of joy. Everything about the game looks great, but those words really resonated. One of the most pressing questions I've spent the last two years asking myself has been definitively answered. [A blog post](http://www.mirrorsedge.com/news/fluidity-of-movement-and-combat-in-first-person-gameplay) on the new website goes into more detail on how combat works:

> But though the main experience is centered around fluidity of movement Faith does have enemies and she is a skilled fighter. Combat too is focused on movement and agility, and Faith has no use for guns, having vowed long ago never to use them again. Instead her own body is the projectile, and properly guided she cuts through enemies like a sweeping scythe, dropping them left and right, while never staying still long enough for them to be able to hit her. Combining momentum, timing and your mastery of the environment is the key to claiming victory.

The game is out on February 23, 2016 and I can't wait to get my hands on it.
