---
layout: post.hbs
title: Fallout 4 Announced
date: 2015-06-03
---

Bethesda announced *Fallout 4* with a [teaser trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GE2BkLqMef4) this morning, and it looks like we're heading to Boston this time.

It's a hype trailer focused on setting the tone and showing off the new graphics, so details on story and gameplay are scarce. I expect to learn more when they premiere the game at E3 on June 14. It will be streamed live on YouTube and Twitch.

I really dig the sound work at the end of the trailer; when the *Fallout 4* logo appears, the light bulb in the center lights up and the sound you would expect an old light bulb to make matches the tone of the background music. It's a great effect.

I really enjoyed *Fallout 3* (and *Fallout: New Vegas* to a lesser extent) thanks to its open-ended exploration and rich atmosphere. Even though the color palette rarely changed, the creators of *Fallout 3* managed to create several memorable locations throughout the vast landscape. That's a tough thing to do when you're designing levels for a nuclear wasteland.

What really made *Fallout 3* for me, though, was playing it on PC with mods. Minimal HUD, high resolution texture packs, darker nights and more vibrant, realistic colors turned this game into a very immersive experience. I can't imagine playing it any other way. The art style presented in the teaser trailer for *Fallout 4* looks good - far more colorful than previous games - so I'm hopeful that some mods won't even be necessary this time around. I can almost guarantee I'll still play with a minimal HUD mod, though.
