---
layout: post.hbs
title: Ghost Introduces Public Revenue Dashboard
date: 2015-04-07
---

In April 2014, Buffer made their revenue metrics [public](https://open.bufferapp.com/buffer-public-revenue-dashboard/) (I didn't even know that until I read about it today). Today, Ghost has [followed suit](http://blog.ghost.org/april-2015-update/) in a continued effort to be open and transparent in 2015. From the blog post:

> "As of today you — and everyone else — have access to a live-stream of our transactions as and when they take place on Ghost.org as well as a big list of all our most important key metrics..."

If that wasn't enough, this is apparently just the beginning.

> "Opening up our revenue publicly is just the beginning. In the coming months we're going to continue to release valuable data about Ghost as an organisation (as well as a product) to everyone who is interested in hearing about it."

I love everything about this. Ghost is an elegant, thoughtfully-designed blogging platform with a bright future. Many startups, I imagine, would be content to settle there. But Ghost does things differently. They have always pushed the boundaries of startup culture, and I find it inspiring to see them come out and act so blatantly against the established conventions time and time again.

In my observation, talking about revenue metrics in public is a very controlled exercise for most companies. You don't usually hear exact numbers, but rather ballpark estimates and pre-approved statements. The very notion that a company would not only reveal exact numbers but allow consumers to check on those numbers _any time they feel like it_ is profound. It would probably scare most business folk right out of their shoes. We are taught to carefully consider what we reveal to the public, to thoroughly groom our brand by spinning it in just the right way. It would seem the good people at Ghost decided to say **"Fuck spinning and grooming. Let's just be open and honest."**

I'd say it's working.
