---
layout: post.hbs
title: Mesmer Elite Specialization Announced - The Chronomancer
date: 2015-04-30
---

_Guild Wars 2: Heart of Thorns_ is bringing a lot of new features to the core game. One of the most anticipated features is the new Specialization system; a complete rework of the skill and trait systems in the game. Each of the professions - including the upcoming 9th profession, the revenant - will also gain access to an elite specialization. These elite specializations will fundamentally change their respective profession by bringing a new mechanic, new skills, new traits and access to a new weapon type.

The announcements have started this week with the mesmer's elite specialization: [the chronomancer](https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/meet-the-chronomancer-mesmers-elite-specialization/). I haven't been this excited about _Heart of Thorns_ since it was officially unveiled at PAX South 2015 back in January. In broad strokes, becoming a chronomancer means becoming, as ArenaNet have put it in the blog post, "a fabulous time mage." It definitely sounds fabulous.

Between the trait rework and this elite specialization, it sounds like mesmers are going to feel a lot more like they did in the original _Guild Wars_, back when fast casting and interrupts were their primary talents.

Their new mechanic, Continuum Split, sounds particular amazing and opens the door to all sorts of interesting tactics. From the blog post:

> When the chronomancer activates Continuum Split, they sacrifice all of their illusions to split themselves off from the normal flow of time for a duration that scales with the number of illusions shattered. When this duration is over, or when the mesmer activates the follow-up skill Continuum Shift, they revert back to the location where the skill was first activated.

That already sounds pretty compelling. But then the mind blow comes:

> Here’s where things get fun. Shifting back to the original timeline reverts the chronomancer’s health, endurance, and all cooldowns (yes, even the elite skill) back to the state they were in when the shatter was first activated. This skill essentially gives the chronomancer a reset button and allows for tricks such as casting any skill twice, avoiding a killing blow, or simply tactically repositioning yourself.

I can only imagine the crazy things players will do with this! This skill is sure to get hit with a few balance patches early on, but it's going to be really exciting to experiment with this.

I believe ANet is planning to announce a new elite specialization every week. Having set the bar with chronomancer, I _cannot wait_ to learn about the remaining eight.
