---
layout: post.hbs
title: 100 Days of Blogging
date: 2015-04-06
---

Welcome to my first post for The Great Discontent's [100 Day Project](http://thegreatdiscontent.com/100days)! I have chosen a simple challenge, but what that holds meaning for me: Write a blog post every day for 100 days.

I've tried to start a blog several times over the past few years. None of them got past the first post. I always had an excuse for why I didn't have time to write, and after a while, I would just give up and move on to other things. **Not today, folks.**

The 100 Day Project gives me a great opportunity to prove to myself that there is _no reason_ why I can't write something every day. I'm keeping this simple to minimize the possibility of me making an excuse, but I do have a few rules:

- Write one post every day. No more, no less.
- No restrictions on word count.
- I have a lot of passions in life, but I'm going to try to focus on video games and technology.

I will also be actively tweaking and improving the design of this site throughout the project, so don't be too surprised if things feel a little different from day to day. You can track the source code [on Github](https://github.com/nickpfisterer/its-nicks-source) if you're interested in that kind of thing.

I'm kind of nervous that I will fail again. I worry that my writing sucks and that no one will care. But that's the trick, isn't it? Like many before me, I need to learn how to embrace failure as a learning opportunity and grow from it. The only way I can get better at writing is to keep writing. So if you don't mind, I'm just going to shut up and write.
