---
layout: post.hbs
title: Elite Specialization Speculation - The Necromancer
date: 2015-05-13
---

Tomorrow, ArenaNet is expected to announce the necromancer's first elite specialization. After their usual [Twitter teaser](https://twitter.com/GuildWars2/status/597798279414489089) on Monday, many of us in the Guild Wars 2 community have been speculating wildly. As someone who mains a necromancer, I decided it would be fun to collect my favorite speculations here and offer a theory of my own before the announcement drops tomorrow morning.

### What We Already Know
Here's what we know we will gain access to with this elite spec:
* The greatsword weapon
* A new type of slot skill
* A new way to use life force

With that in mind, let the speculation begin.

### The Name
Hot on the heels of the polarizing [dragonhunter reveal](https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/meet-the-dragonhunter-guardians-elite-specialization/), this has been one of the most speculated topics. There are several cool names being tossed around on Twitter, Reddit and all over the web. This is by no means an exhaustive list, but these are the most interesting names I've come across throughout the week:

* Reaper
* Reaver
* Cultist
* Harbinger
* Demonologist
* Banshee
* Ritualist
* Undertaker
* Invoker
* Mistwalker

Banshee seems to be the popular vote at the moment, thanks to its obvious connection to shouts (more on that in a moment). My personal favorites are cultist and ritualist. In a [forum post](https://forum-en.guildwars2.com/forum/professions/guardian/Liked-the-ready-up-name-still-doesn-t-fit#post5048195) he wrote earlier this week, Jon Peters offered some insight on how they named the dragonhunter. To me, the most interesting part of the post was this:

> We had other generic names in mind but felt like it was important to have a mix of spec names that are generic fantasy, more Tyrian fantasy, and more high concept. This one falls more in the third category.

So the dragonhunter falls into the 'high concept' category, and I think it's safe to say the chronomancer falls under 'generic fantasy.' To say that there is a pattern here would be reading too much into it, but it's exciting to think that the necromancer's elite spec name might fall under the 'Tyrian fantasy' category. I personally hope it does.

### Greatsword Skills
Based on the professions that already have access to the greatsword, I think we can safely assume a few things:

* It will probably offer high burst damage
* It will probably have AoE skills
* It will probably have a skill that involves movement or throwing the weapon at foes

Every profession that can currently use a greatsword can do all of these things. Of course, ArenaNet could throw us a curveball and do something totally new and fresh this time. But this is the evidence we have to work with.

It's also worth noting that the mesmer is a bit more unique in the way they utilize the greatsword, particularly with Spatial Surge. I am personally hoping they take the same path with necromancer. Maybe add a bit of the guardian flavor, too. I would love to see a necromantic take on Binding Blade!

### Slot Skills
I've heard a few different ideas here, but the common theory is shouts. Not only does it match the popular banshee name, but it would could potentially bring better group support to the necromancer, particularly in PvE. This is a sore spot for the profession currently, so it's definitely an exciting possibility. New shouts would mean new voice overs, too, and that's always cool! And, since we're talking about necromancers here, these shouts could have a darker flavor to them; something we've yet to see. I'd like to briefly explore a few other potential skill types, though.

#### Stances
It's been suggested that the necromancer elite spec may bring stances to the profession. [This conversation](http://imgur.com/a/6THWt#0) with Marjory in game certainly seems to suggest as much. We already know ANet is hinting at future elite specs through the story thanks to Marjory's sister, Belinda. Of course, maybe we're not meant to take Marjory's words literally. It's entirely possible that ANet didn't yet know at the time what skills they'd give the necromancer elite spec, and that the hint is more about her learning how to use a greatsword than anything else.

The bad side of this is that stances in their current form only affect the user. This wouldn't bring the improved group support to the profession that so many desire. ANet may very well surprise us and make these stances work differently, but in this case we'll have to wait and see.

#### Mantras
Mantras are currently only accessible to the mesmer, and they're rather unique. Rather than cast them directly, you charge them up. After a long casting time, they're replaced by an instant cast skill with 2 uses. Once you use those charges up, you hit a cooldown. This would bring an interesting flavor to the profession. Mantras in this case could be more like rituals or chants. Maybe you could charge up a shadow ritual and be rewarded with 2 short-range teleports, but they cost life force to use.

Great flavor aside, mantras are mostly selfish skills. I say mostly because there is _one_ mantra - Mantra of Resolve - that cures conditions on both you **and** nearby allies. This means mantras could potentially bring the group support many players are hoping for.

#### Spirits
This is my favorite potential new skill type. Currently, rangers have exclusive access to spirits. They're ethereal creatures that, once summoned, have specific effects on the area surrounding them. They can be killed, and they'll also disappear if the caster moves too far away.

I think this is a strong candidate. They'd be a great fit lore-wise for the profession. Marjory's story has involved ghostly spirits on more than one occasion; something I've really enjoyed about her character. I think there is good potential for mechanics and synergy, too. A spirit could have both positive effects on allies and negative effects on foes, so the potential for added group support is there. Mechanically, I think it would be cool if you managed spirits somehow with life force. That would bring a new meaning to life force without significantly altering death shroud.

Some good points have been made against spirits. Chief among them is the idea that, since necromancers already have access to minions, spirits might feel redundant and therefore a bit dull. After all, elite specializations are supposed to unlock new possibilities for each profession. I can definitely see this point of view, but I'm still partial to this option. I think it's one of the best fits thematically. Plus, if spirits bring the group support people are craving, then the experience could certainly prove to be sufficiently different from managing minions.

### Death Shroud
This is the biggest mystery to me. I'd like to get excited about the possibility of a really different take on death shroud, but I don't see them messing with it much, if at all, due to the number of traits that augment it. I honestly can't think of any way that they could change death shroud in an interesting way that doesn't interfere with traits.

With that said, maybe they will add an entirely new shroud skill that _compliments_ death shroud. That could be interesting! I don't really have any ideas there, but it's exciting to think about.

### Conclusion
Alright. I'm going to end this article with my prediction. This is just for fun, but I want to get my theory out there and see what happens. The more theorycrafting, the better! So here's my prediction for the necromancer's first elite specialization:

_It will be called the ritualist. The ritualist will gain access to spirit skills and manage them with life force, similar to how revenant manages legends with energy. Summoning a spirit will add negative ticks to your life force; the more spirits you have out, the faster your life force drains. When your life force is empty, all of your spirits disappear and you take on a negative condition or effect that is similar to exhaustion from Guild Wars 1. A sort of summoning sickness that will wear off after a brief while. To avoid this, you can consume any active spirit to destroy it prematurely and gain back a portion of life force._

_Spirits will vary in their utility: some will buff allies in the area; some will debuff foes in the area; some will do a mix of both.
Spirits' effects will last as long as your life force does, or until they are killed or consumed. When they are consumed, you will get a significant buff from them. A utility spirit might enhance your greatsword attacks on consumption, while your healing spirit might give you a big self heal. If spirits are killed, not consumed, you will not gain this special effect._

_Playing a ritualist will be a balancing act. Maintain the right spirits for a given situation, watch your life force, know when the time is right to consume a spirit, and be careful to avoid summoning sickness._
