---
layout: post.hbs
title: Guardian Elite Specialization Announced - The Dragonhunter
date: 2015-05-07
---

Today, ArenaNet announced the second of nine elite specializations coming in _Guild Wars 2: Heart of Thorns_: [the dragonhunter](https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/meet-the-dragonhunter-guardians-elite-specialization/). I was really excited about the chronomancer after reading about it last week; so much so that I rolled a new mesmer to prepare for it. I don't feel the same rush to play a dragonhunter.

Don't get me wrong: what the dragonhunter does is pretty cool. When you spec your guardian to be a dragonhunter, you gain access to the longbow weapon and a set of trap skills. On top of that, the guardian's profession mechanic - virtues - becomes more active than passive, transforming each of the four virtues into a more offensive skill while still retaining the base characteristics of their original form. What bothers me is that the dragonhunter doesn't feel like a natural extension of the guardian. It feels like an entirely new profession. Now, I get that the whole point of elite specializations is to open new roles to existing professions. But the way they're spinning this elite spec - a sort of "big game hunter" that focuses on back line support with long range and powerful, single-shot skills - just doesn't jive with my understanding of the guardian, from both game design and story perspectives. The lore side of this especially confuses me: why would a guardian become a dragonhunter? I have trouble buying that idea as an element of the story. The themes surrounding the guardian seem to clash with what makes a dragonhunter tick.

Tomorrow, ArenaNet will show the dragonhunter in action during their [Ready Up](https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/watch-the-dragonhunter-on-this-weeks-ready-up/) live stream on Twitch. Hopefully that will provide clarification and give us better insight into what this elite spec is all about.
