---
layout: post.hbs
title: Introducing Harmon
date: 2015-04-14
---

Modular scales are becoming more common in web design today. As far as I know, using a modular scale in web design was popularized by [Tim Brown](https://twitter.com/timbrown), a Type Manager at Typekit. In his _A List Apart_ article on the subject, Tim explains what a modular scale is and why we might want to use one:

> A modular scale is a sequence of numbers that relate to one another in a meaningful way. [...]

> By using culturally relevant, historically pleasing ratios to create modular scales and basing the measurements in our compositions on values from those scales, we can achieve a visual harmony not found in layouts that use arbitrary, conventional, or easily divisible numbers.

Check out [the full article](http://alistapart.com/article/more-meaningful-typography) if you want to dive deeper.

### Scratching an itch
I like using a modular scale in my Sass projects to maintain harmony and vertical rhythm. There is a well-known modular scale calculator made with Sass — aptly named [modularscale-sass]() — but I often find it to be more than I need. I've been using my own little scale that I cobbled together a few projects ago, and this weekend I decided to clean it up and release it on Github for everyone to use. I call it Harmon.

Harmon is a simple typographic scale written in Sass. My goal was to make it as straight forward as using [modularscale.com](http://modularscale.com). It's easy to configure & use, and it's lightweight at under 3kb. It outputs rems by default, but you can optionally output unitless values (useful for line heights). You can travel 6 steps down the scale or 16 steps up; Harmon will throw an error if you go outside of that range.

You can download Harmon [on Github](https://github.com/nickpfisterer/harmon) or install it with Bower `bower install harmon --save`. Check out the [README](https://github.com/nickpfisterer/harmon/blob/master/README.md) for instructions and feel free to [submit an issue](https://github.com/nickpfisterer/harmon/issues) if you find a bug or have a suggestion.

### That name though
Funny story about the name. I was going to call it Harmony, but when I went to add Bower support I saw that there was already a packaged called Harmony (the Bower registry is first-come, first-serve). I didn't want to spend a lot of time on a new name, so I just chopped off the 'y' in Harmony. When I said it out loud, it sounded catchy. So I stuck with it.
