---
layout: post.hbs
title: Rebuilding Lion's Arch
date: 2015-05-19
---

It's patch day for Guild Wars 2, and this time ArenaNet dropped a nice surprise on us: the rebuilding of Lion's Arch is [nearing completion](https://www.guildwars2.com/en/news/lions-arch-construction-nears-completion-new-player-poll-announced/)! What excites me most about this is the approach they're taking. From today's [patch notes](https://forum-en.guildwars2.com/forum/info/updates/Game-Update-Notes-May-19-2015):

> Attention, citizens of Lion’s Arch,
>
> The rebuilding effort has begun! Please tread carefully around the construction zones, and try to respect the workers as they transform our beloved port into something new. Planning has taken much time, as the architects have had to work through many engineering and architectural challenges before agreeing on the final design of the city. Thank you for your patience and resilience during this difficult time. Together we’ll make the new Lion’s Arch a metropolis for the ages.

I love the fact that they're turning Lion's Arch into "something new" instead of just rebuilding the original city. That line at the end about making the new Lion's Arch a "metropolis for the ages" makes me particularly excited. Long-time players know that this isn't the first time Lion's Arch has been rebuilt, but it's the first time we've witnessed it in the actual game. This will go down as an important moment in the history of Guild Wars 2, and I think building a new city vs. rebuilding what was already there not only fits the lore better, but will provide an equally fresh and exciting experience for new and old players alike.

What's _really_ cool is that today's patch brought a host of changes to Lion's Arch already! There are several new NPCs to talk to and _tons_ of construction going on around the city. Much of the destruction left in Scarlet's wake has been cleaned up, replaced in some locations by new structures that are well under way. The most exciting nugget I found so far is a structure over in Postern Ward. A line of guild-related service NPCs are standing in front of it, and there's a consortium surveyor who declines to go into detail but is willing to tell you that it's going to be an "exciting new guild-related organization." Guild halls hype!

But wait: there's more.

### You get to participate
Yeah, that's right. They want _your_ input on what the important locations in the new Lion's Arch should be called! From the blog post:

> Hear ye! Hear ye! The city leaders of Lion’s Arch invite you to participate in the reinauguration of our beloved metropolis. You are invited to help in the naming of important structures, locations, and areas within Lion’s Arch!

If you want to participate, head over to [this poll](https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/5B7WMBF) and vote for your favorite names. Voting ends on May 26.

This seems like a great way to get us, the players, involved in the process and really feel like we're investing in the lore of the game. I can already imagine the giddy feeling I would get every time I visit a location in Lion's Arch that bares the name I chose for it.

### Ready Up
At the end of last week's Points of Interest, Rubi mentioned that while we aren't getting an elite specialization reveal this week, they _are_ announcing something "very, very cool." So cool, in fact, that it apparently warrants an entire episode of Ready Up, their PvP-focused Twitch show. It would be kind of weird to make two big announcements in one week, but at the same time, talking about Lion's Arch doesn't seem to fit Ready Up at all. Will we get another announcement? We'll have to wait until the show on Friday to find out.
